## MCR: runc process.cwd and leaked fds container breakout 
### Release Date
2024-01-31
### Overview
Several container breakouts due to internally leaked fds.

Consult the [upstream advisory][upstream] and [snyk][snyk.io] for details, mitigations, workarounds, and patches.
### Affected Products
Mirantis Container Runtime (MCR) <= 23.0.9
## Vulnerability Information
### CVE Identifier
[CVE-2024-21626][nvd.nist.gov]
### CVSSv3.1
8.6 (High) CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H
### CWEs
CWE-403, CWE-668
### How to check if your environment is vulnerable
`runc` version is equal or lower (<=) than `1.1.11-rc1`
````
# docker version --format '{{range .Server.Components}}{{if eq .Name "runc"}}{{.Version}}{{end}}{{end}}'
1.1.11-rc1 <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
````
## How to fix
### MCR 23.0.x
Upgrade MCR packages to the fixed 23.0.9-1 version or newer
* `docker-ee*` packages to:
  - `23.0.9~4-0` Ubuntu
  - `23.0.9-4` for RPM package based OSes
* `containerd.io` package to
  - `1.6.28~rc.1-2` Ubuntu
  - `1.6.28-4.1.rc.1.1` for RPM package based OSes
* `Note:` Restart of the `dockerd` service is `NOT` necessary! 
#### Ubuntu
```
# apt-get install docker-ee=5:23.0.9~4-0* docker-ee-cli=5:23.0.9~4-0* docker-ee-rootless-extras=5:23.0.9~4-0* containerd.io=1.6.28~rc.1-2*
```
Check `runc` version:
```
# docker version --format '{{range .Server.Components}}{{if eq .Name "runc"}}{{.Version}}{{end}}{{end}}'
1.1.11-rc1.m1 <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
```
#### RPM package based OSes
```
# yum install docker-ee-3:23.0.9-4* docker-ee-cli-1:23.0.9-4* docker-ee-rootless-extras-23.0.9-4* containerd.io-1.6.28-4.1.rc.1.1*
```
Check `runc` version:
```
# docker version --format '{{range .Server.Components}}{{if eq .Name "runc"}}{{.Version}}{{end}}{{end}}'
1.1.11-rc1.m1 <<<<<<<<<<<<<<<
```

For more details please read the [MCR official installation documentation][mcr.docs]

### MCR 20.10.x 
If you have EOL MCR 20.10.x we `STRONGLY RECOMMEND` to upgrade to the MCR 23.0.9-1.
But we have an temporary option in case if the MCR version is 20.10.12 (`containerd` 1.6 is used starting from 20.10.12) or newer the CVE can be resolved by upgrade `containerd.io` package to the fixed version.
`Note` Please be aware that this is an `EXCEPTIONAL` and `TEMPORARY` solution and no new ones are expected in the future.
#### Ubuntu
```
# apt-get install containerd.io=1.6.28~rc.1-2*
```
#### RPM package based OSes
```
# yum install containerd.io-1.6.28-4.1.rc.1.1*
```

### Offline deployment
1. Download packages from [official Mirantis repository][mcr.repos] according your OS and platform
2. Copy them to offline nodes (using USB Flash for example)
3. Install these packages on hosts and check `runc` version
#### Ubuntu
```
# dpkg -i docker-ee_23.0.9~4-0* docker-ee-cli_23.0.9~4-0* docker-ee-rootless-extras_23.0.9~4-0* containerd.io=1.6.28~rc.1-2*
```
#### RPM package based OSes
```
# rpm -i docker-ee-23.0.9-4* docker-ee-cli-23.0.9-4* docker-ee-rootless-extras-23.0.9-4* containerd.io-1.6.28-4.1.rc.1.1*
```

### Upgrade MCR using Launchpad 
If your MKE cluster is deployed with Launchpad and configuration correspond to current cluster configuration you can 
update MCR w/ Launchpad using the follow steps:
1. Download the [Launchpad][launchpad] v1.5.4 version or newer
2. Run Launchpad apply with `--force upgrade` flag:
   - `./launchpad-linux-<arch> apply --force-upgrade` 
3. Check `runc` version on all nodes

## Acknowledgements
Found by Rory McNamara at Snyk 
## Disclosure Timeline
* 2023-11-20: Rory McNamara initially discovered the vulnerabilities. He began the internal verification process and additional research to validate findings and build POC exploits.
* 2023-12-11: Initial disclosure sent to Docker with all vulnerabilities, and Docker ACKed the same day.
* 2023-12-12: Snyk received a request from Docker to forward the WORKDIR vulnerability to runc, as it was deemed their responsibility.
* 2023-12-13: Rory was added as a Github Security Advisory (GHSA) collaborator for the Arbitrary Delete and grpc Docker/Buildkit vulns (both initially opened 11-Dec-2023).
* 2023-12-19: Rory was added as GHSA collaborator to WORKDIR by runc (initially opened 11-Dec-2023).
* 2023-12-20: Rory was added as GHSA collaborator for the cache race vulnerability.
* 2024-01-02: runc CVE assigned (Github CNA).
* 2024-01-17: runc sends an announcement to their security mailing list including the patches & embargo date of 31-Jan-2024.
* 2024-01-24: Docker vulnerabilities CVEs assigned (GitHub CNA).
* 2024-01-31: All four "Leaky Vessels" vulnerabilities announced publicly.
* 2024-01-31: Runc released version 1.1.12 which fixes the vulnerabilities.
* 2024-02-08: MCR 23.0.9-1 released

  [upstream]: https://github.com/opencontainers/runc/security/advisories/GHSA-xr7r-f8xq-vfvv
  [snyk.io]: https://snyk.io/blog/cve-2024-21626-runc-process-cwd-container-breakout 
  [nvd.nist.gov]: https://nvd.nist.gov/vuln/detail/CVE-2024-21626 
  [mcr.docs]: https://docs.mirantis.com/mcr/23.0/install/mcr-linux.html
  [mcr.repos]: https://repos.miranits.com/
  [laucnpad]: https://github.com/Mirantis/mcc/releases/tag/v1.5.4