### Mirantis Kubernetes Engine (MKE) and CVE-2024-21626: Understanding the Impact and Mitigation
#### Release Date
2024-02-08
#### Overview
This advisory addresses the impact of CVE-2024-21626, a vulnerability identified within `runc`, and its implications for the Mirantis Kubernetes Engine (MKE). Given that MKE relies heavily on the Mirantis Container Runtime (MCR), this vulnerability directly impacts its operational integrity. We aim to clarify the situation, explain the mitigation steps, and provide actionable guidance for MKE users.

### Vulnerability Information
#### CVE Identifier
CVE-2024-21626
#### CVSSv3.1
8.6 (High) CVSS:3.1/AV:L/AC:L/PR:N/UI:R/S:C/C:H/I:H/A:H
#### CWEs
CWE-403, CWE-668

#### Affected Product
* MKE deployment requires installation of MCR.  Older versions of MCR (<= 23.0.9) contain the vulnerability in the underlying `runc` (<= 1.1.11-rc1) component. Please see the [MCR advisory](https://github.com/Mirantis/security/blob/main/advisories/0010.md) for details.  MKE deployments with MCR <= 23.0.9 require an upgrade to MCR 23.0.9-1 or later to patch `runc` to 1.1.11-rc1.m1.

* No MKE Image Update Needed
  
   While CVE-2024-21626 might appear in vulnerability scans of your MKE images due to the dependent library, an update to MKE images is not currently required.  We understand this discrepancy can be confusing. To address this and enhance transparency, we are actively working to remove unnecessary references to the vulnerability from future MKE image scans. This update is planned for upcoming MKE releases.

#### How to check if MKE is vulnerable
1. Connect to each node in your MKE cluster individually using their respective [Docker contexts](https://docs.docker.com/engine/context/working-with-contexts/)
   Alternatively, access each node using SSH.
2. Check the `runc` version on each node by executing the docker command
   ```
   docker version --format '{{range .Server.Components}}{{if eq .Name "runc"}}{{.Version}}{{end}}{{end}}'
   ```
3. If any node reports a `runc` version <= 1.1.11-rc1, your MKE cluster is vulnerable.

### Upgrading MCR using Launchpad
If your MKE cluster is deployed with Launchpad and configuration correspond to current cluster configuration you can 
update MCR with Launchpad using the follow steps:
1. Install the [Launchpad v1.5.4](https://github.com/Mirantis/mcc/releases/tag/v1.5.4) version or newer following the [installation guide](https://docs.mirantis.com/mke/3.7/launchpad/lp-get-started.html#install-launchpad)
2. Configure MCR version `23.0.9`
For example:
```
apiVersion: launchpad.mirantis.com/mke/v1.3
kind: mke
metadata:
....
spec:
....
  "mcr":
    "channel": "stable"
    "installURLLinux": "https://get.mirantis.com/"
    "installURLWindows": "https://get.mirantis.com/install.ps1"
    "repoURL": "https://repos.mirantis.com"
    "version": "23.0.9"
....
```
`Note` MCR version must be exactly `23.0.9` (NOT 23.0.9-1)

3. Run Launchpad apply with `--force-upgrade` flag:
   - `./launchpad apply --force-upgrade`
4. Check `runc` version on all nodes

#### Upgrading MCR direcly without Launchpad
Please refer to [MCR advisory](https://github.com/Mirantis/security/blob/main/advisories/0010.md) for upgrading MCR steps on all vulnerable nodes.  The process is the same to upgrading to any supported MCR version within a running MKE environment.
After completing the upgrade, use the `docker version` command again (as shown in the previous section) to verify that `runc` has been updated to version 1.1.11-rc1.m1.

#### Acknowledgements
Found by Rory McNamara at Snyk 
#### Disclosure Timeline
* 2023-11-20: Rory McNamara initially discovered the vulnerabilities. He began the internal verification process and additional research to validate findings and build POC exploits.
* 2024-01-02: runc CVE assigned (Github CNA).
* 2024-01-17: runc sends an announcement to their security mailing list including the patches & embargo date of 31-Jan-2024.
* 2024-01-24: Docker vulnerabilities CVEs assigned (GitHub CNA).
* 2024-01-31: All four "Leaky Vessels" vulnerabilities announced publicly.
* 2024-01-31: Runc released version 1.1.12 which fixes the vulnerabilities.
* 2024-02-08: MCR 23.0.9-1 released
